1: How many edges are present in path cluster?
Ans.2

2: How many edges does a leaf cluster contain?
Ans. 0

3: How many edges are present in Edge cluster?
Ans.1

4: Which data structure is used to maintain a dynamic forest using a link or cut operation?
Ans. Top Tree

5: What is the time complexity for the initialization of top tree?
Ans.O (n)

6: How many top trees are there in a tree with single vertex?
Ans.0

7: Which property makes top tree a binary tree?
Ans.  Nodes as Cluster ,Leaves as Edges ,Root is Tree Itself

8: Which of the dynamic operations are used in Top Tree data structure implementation?
Ans.Link
Cut
Expose

9: Which of the following are used as an internal operation in Top tree?
Ans.Merge

10: What is the time complexity for maintaining a dynamic set of weighted trees?
Ans.O (log n)

11: What are splay trees?
Ans.self adjusting binary search trees

12: Which of the following property of splay tree is correct?
Ans.any sequence of j operations starting from an empty tree with h nodes atmost, takes O(jlogh) time complexity

13: Why to prefer splay trees?
Ans. easier to program and faster access to recently accessed items

14: What is the load factor for an open addressing technique?
Ans.0.5

15: What is a splay operation?
Ans.moving a node to root

16: Which of the following options is an application of splay trees?
Ans. cache Implementation

17: When we have red-black trees and AVL trees that can perform most of operations in logarithmic times, then what is the need for splay trees?
Ans. In real time it is estimated that 80% access is only to 20% data, hence most used ones must be easily available

18: What is the disadvantage of using splay trees?
Ans. height of a splay tree can be linear when accessing elements in non decreasing order.

19: What is the space complexity of a treap algorithm?
Ans. O(N)

20: Which is the simplest of all binary search trees?
Ans. Treap

21: What is the reason behind the simplicity of a treap?
Ans.Each node has a fixed priority field

22: What is the condition for priority of a node in a treap?
Ans. a node's priority should be at least as large as its parent

23: What is the average running time of a treap?
Ans.O(log N)

24: Which node has the lowest priority in a treap?
Ans. root node

25: What is the priority of a null node?
Ans. infinity

26: Who invented treaps?
Ans. Cecilia and Raimund

27: What is a threaded binary tree traversal?
Ans.a binary tree traversal without using stacks and queues

28: What are the disadvantages of normal binary tree traversals?
Ans.there are many pointers which are null and thus useless

29: In general, the node content in a threaded binary tree is ________
Ans.leftchild_pointer, left_tag, data, right_tag, rightchild_pointer

30: What are null nodes filled with in a threaded binary tree?
Ans. inorder predecessor for left node and inorder successor for right node information

31: Which of the following tree traversals work if the null left pointer pointing to the predecessor and null right pointer pointing to the successor in a binary tree?
Ans. inorder, postorder, preorder traversals

32: What are double and single threaded trees?
Ans.when both left, right nodes are having null pointers and only right node is null pointer respectively

33: Who developed the concept of tango tree?
Ans.Erik Demaine
Mihai Patrascu
John Lacono

34: Which type of tree is tango tree?
Ans.Binary Search Tree

35: After which city is tango tree named?
Ans.Buenos Aires

36: Which type of binary search tree or algorithm does tango tree use?
Ans. Online

37: What is the time complexity of for achieving competitive ratio by tango tree?
Ans.O (log (log n))

38: Which type of binary search tree is imitated for construction of tango tree?
Ans.Complete Binary Search Tree

39: Which special balanced binary search tree is used to store the nodes of auxiliary tree?
Ans.Red - Black Tree

40: Which operation is used to combine two auxiliary trees?
Ans.Join

41: Which operation is used to break a preferred path into two sets of parts at a particular node?
Ans.Cut

42: What is the upper bound for a tango tree if k is a number of interleaves?
Ans.k+1 O (log (log n))

43: What is the time complexity for searching k+1 auxiliary trees?
Ans.k+1 O (log (log n))

44: What is the time complexity for the update cost on auxiliary trees?
Ans.k+1 O (log (log n))

45: Which of the following is the self-adjusting binary search tree?
Ans.Splay Tree

46: Which of the following is also known as Rope data structure?
Ans. Cord

47: Which type of data structure does rope represent?
Ans. Binary Tree

48: What is the time complexity for finding the node at x position where n is the length of the rope?
Ans.O (log n)

49: What is the time complexity for creating a new node and then performing concatenation in the rope data structure?
Ans.O (1)

50: What is the time complexity for splitting the string into two new string in the rope data structure?
Ans.O (log n)